---
title: 'Setting up your computer for Nuxt'
description: 'Here is what you will need to start building Nuxt projects on your computer'
head:
  meta:
    - name: 'keywords'
      content: 'Nuxt project, Nuxt auto-imports, Installing Nuxt, Nuxt Node.js, Nuxt 3'
    - name: 'robots'
      content: 'index, follow'
    - name: 'author'
      content: 'Eckhardt'
    - name: 'copyright'
      content: '© 2023 Learn Nuxt'
---

# <span class="text-colorful">Welcome</span> to Learn Nuxt 👋
Before getting started, I would like to thank you for checking out this free version of the Learn Nuxt course! I hope you have a blast reading it and learn many new things 🚀. Let's first get your PC setup and ready to go, then we'll dive into the basics of what Nuxt is and how you can understand it.

# How to set up your computer to start writing Nuxt apps
Whether you're on Mac, Windows or Linux - the steps below should work for you.

### Install latest LTS of Node.js
You can find the download [on their homepage](https://nodejs.org), please make sure you're installing a version at 16,18 or more. By the time you read this, Node should already be at 20.

### Install pnpm
First check that node installed correctly by opening up your favorite terminal / command prompt and running `node -v`. If you see a version number, you're good to go.

Now we're going to install `pnpm`. This is a package manager for Node.js. Node actually ships with its own package manager called `npm`, but for reasons you can read on [pnpm's site](https://pnpmjs.org) they just do a better job of managing packages.

To install it, run:

```bash{}[~]
npm install -g pnpm@latest
```

<br><br>

# That's it!
Your computer is now ready to start building Nuxt projects. I am leaving out the part about installing a code editor, but you definitely need one. If you do not have one and do not know where to start - check out [VS Code](https://code.visualstudio.com/). Checkout out the next article to start your first Nuxt project.
